KEP-3751: Update for milestone 1.31 (#4698)
kubernetes/enhancements: keps/sig-storage/3751-volume-attributes-class/README.md

### 5. Add new operation metrics for ModifyVolume operations

A. Count of bound/unbound PVCs per VolumeAttributesClass similar to [StorageClass](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/666fc23fe4d6c84b1dde2b8d4ebf75fce466d338/pkg/controller/volume/persistentvolume/metrics/metrics.go#L98). 

> Today, we loop through all PersistentVolume objects, check if `pv.Status.Phase == v1.VolumeBound` and increment the appropriate `pv.Spec.StorageClassName` bucket. For these new metrics, when the feature flag is enabled, we also increment the appropriate `pv.Spec.VolumeAttributeClassName` if it is not empty. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Prior to this enhancement, we'd loop through all PersistentVolume objects, check if `pv.Status.Phase == v1.VolumeBound` and increment the appropriate `pv.Spec.StorageClassName` bucket. For these new metrics, when the feature flag is enabled, we also increment the appropriate `pv.Spec.VolumeAttributeClassName` if it is not empty. 
```

?

“Today” changes daily&hellip;

- Give a driver that does not ControllerModifyVolume, CSI volume should not be modified.
- If ControllerModifyVolume fails, PVC should have appropriate events.

[Tests PR](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pull/121849)

> 

Reviewer 2: The referenced test PR is still a draft?

Author: Hi @carlory, @sunnylovestiramisu. 

I see all comments on [VAC e2e test PR #121849](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pull/121849) are all resolved or answered. Are we ready to un-draft?

Author: Offline discussed that only E2E csi test must be merged for KEP merge.

> k8s-triage TODO

Reviewer 2: What does this mean?

Author: Updated TODO placeholder for "Waiting until PR merged" placeholder.

##### Stress tests

> - VAC protection controller with large(define large for GA) lists of PVCs

Reviewer 2: Can you check existing examples of stress tests and see what number is being used?

Author: My math based on [perf-tests/clusterloader2/testing/load/config.yaml at master](https://github.com/kubernetes/perf-tests/blob/master/clusterloader2/testing/load/config.yaml):
* (1 small Sts x 5 group size / namespace ) + (1 medium sts x 30 group size / namespace) = 35 sts group size / namespace 
* 5000 nodes * 1 namespace / 100 nodes = 50 Namespaces
* 35 sts group size / namespace * 50 namespaces = Total 1750 sts group size
* So  1750 stateful pods -> 1750 PVCs in 5000 Node Scalability Test

Therefore setting number as a 2000 PVC Stress test.

AWS EBS CSI Driver team does a 5000 & 10,000 Volume Lifecycle stress test every few months. We can do one with and without VAC to see what difference is.

#### Beta

> - Beta in 1.31: Since this feature is an extension of the external-resizer/external-provisioner usage flow, we are going to move this to beta with enhanced e2e and test coverage. Test cases are covered in sessions above: ``e2e tests``, ``Integration tests`` etc.

Reviewer 3: Do we need two beta stages to solve the beta AP not available by default? If so, we may need to mention it in the KEP.

cc @msau42

Author: If we will have 2 beta stages, I will change wording to the following.  

```
- Beta in 1.31 –  Feature gate on API Server enabled by default (Off by default in external-provisioner/external-resizer): Since this feature is an extension of the external-resizer/external-provisioner usage flow, we are going to move this to beta with enhanced e2e and test coverage. Test cases are covered in sessions above: ``e2e tests``, ``Integration tests`` etc. 
- Beta stage 2 in 1.3x – Feature gate enabled API Server **and** external-provisioner/external-resizer by default. 
```

Reviewer 4: It's referring to this https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/tree/master/keps/sig-architecture/3136-beta-apis-off-by-default

So the feature gates are on by default, but the API is off. This implies that the controllers need to handle this.

Author: Changing wording back. I assume the following is fine: 
```
- Beta in 1.31: Since this feature is an extension of the external-resizer/external-provisioner usage flow, we are going to move this to beta with enhanced e2e and test coverage. Test cases are covered in sessions above: ``e2e tests``, ``Integration tests`` etc. Controllers will handle VolumeAttributeClass feature gates being on by default, but beta API itself being disabled on clusters by default.
```

#### Beta

- Beta in 1.31: Since this feature is an extension of the external-resizer/external-provisioner usage flow, we are going to move this to beta with enhanced e2e and test coverage. Test cases are covered in sessions above: ``e2e tests``, ``Integration tests`` etc.
- Involve 3 different CSI drivers to participate in testing
- Stress test before GA

#### GA

> - GA in 1.32, all major issues in the issue board should be fixed before GA.

Reviewer 2: I think we don't need to specify which version this feature will go GA as we can't be sure at this time. I see that GA milestone is not set in kep.yaml itself.

question.
-->

> - Ratio of `controller_modify_volume_errors_total`/`controller_modify_volume_total` <= 1%

Reviewer 4: Many providers have a rate limit on how often you can modify the volume. In our metrics, do we need to explicitly call out some error code to indicate that quota has been exhausted?

Author: Shall we add `RESOURCE_EXHAUSTED`  to [CSI Spec: ControllerModifyVolume errors](https://github.com/container-storage-interface/spec/blob/master/spec.md#controllermodifyvolume-errors)? 

Today EBS CSI Driver treats hitting rate-limits or our 6 hour modification cooldown as `INTERNAL`, which is not ideal metrics-wise. `RESOURCE_EXHAUSTED` would be an improvement here. 

Thoughts @msau42?

Author: gnufied@ proposed `UNAVAILABLE` instead for rate-limit related errors. I agree that this makes sense for the transient rate-limit errors (e.g. where request tokens are refilled every second if rate-limiting is using token-bucket algorithm).

```
The service is currently unavailable. This is most likely a transient condition, which can be corrected by retrying with a backoff. Note that it is not always safe to retry non-idempotent operations.
```

For longer cooldown style rate-limits like EBS 6 hour timer between modifications of a volume, I'm not sure if this error code makes sense because it is not a final error that would lead to `infeasible` request status. No infeasible request status means that the sidecar would keep retrying this RPC despite the cooldown which leads to extra calls to the cloud provider. However other error codes like `FAILED_PRECONDITION` are already in use in `ControllerExpandVolume` so I'm not sure that solving this cooldown case Cloud Provider API spam is solvable today.

Reviewer 4: UNAVAILABLE makes sense to me. Since it's not a final error though, I think any throttling may need to be handled in the CSI driver.

question.
-->

- Ratio of `controller_modify_volume_errors_total`/`controller_modify_volume_total` <= 1%
- CreateVolume `csi_sidecar_operations_seconds_sum` does not increase by more than 5% when feature flags are enabled. 

###### What are the SLIs (Service Level Indicators) an operator can use to determine the health of the service?

> - [ ] Metrics

Reviewer 5: nit: X the box

###### Will enabling / using this feature result in non-negligible increase of resource usage (CPU, RAM, disk, IO, ...) in any components?

> Using this feature may result in non-negligible increase of resource usage IF customers batch modify many volumes at once and increase default external-resizer `--workers`, `-kube-api-burst`, and `-kube-api-qps` options.

Reviewer 4: Are kube-api-burst and kube-api-qps options obsolete now that we have api server priority and fairness?

Author: Will remove mention of increasing these default parameters. However a batch volume modification may still lead to a spike in resource usage if CSI Controller is part of a `PriorityClass` with a higher priority (e.g. `system`), yes?

###### How does this feature react if the API server and/or etcd is unavailable?

No change from today's volume provisioning workflow if API Server / etcd are unavailable.

If API server and/or etcd is unavailable, there are two scenarios for volume modification workflow

> 1. External-resizer detects volume needing modification before API Server is made unavailable. Calls ControllerModifyVolume. Cloud provider will modify volume, report success to external resizer. External-resizer will be unable to update PVC object until API Server back online. Error will be logged. 

Reviewer 5: But this will get reconciled later?

Reviewer 4: That's right
